Rewrote filtering workspaces docs (#1879)
vercel/turborepo: docs/pages/docs/core-concepts/filtering.mdx

# Filtering Workspaces

> A monorepo can contain hundreds, or thousands, of workspaces. By default, running `turbo run test` will execute the `test` task in **all available workspaces**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A monorepo can contain hundreds, or thousands, of workspaces. By default, running `turbo run test` will execute the `test` task in **all workspaces** where the task is available.
```

![Without using a filter, test will be run across all packages](../../../public/images/docs/no-filter.png)

Turborepo supports a `--filter` flag that lets you **select the workspaces you'd like to execute your task in**.

![With a filter on shared, only the shared package runs test](../../../public/images/docs/with-filter.png)

You can use it to:

> - Filter by [workspace name](#filter-by-workspace-name)

Reviewer: I _think_ technically these should all be lower cased as they are a continuation of the sentence above

Author: I usually don't bother with this, looks a little unnatural

- Filter by [workspace directory](#filter-by-directory)
- Include [dependents](#include-dependents-of-matched-workspaces) and [dependencies](#include-dependencies-of-matched-workspaces) of matched workspaces
- Execute tasks from the [workspace root](#the-workspace-root)
- Filter by [changes in git history](#filter-by-changed-workspaces)
- [Exclude workspaces](#excluding-workspaces) from selection

Turborepo will run each task against each matched workspace, ensuring that any dependent tasks are run first, according to the `pipeline` specification in [`turbo.json`](/docs/reference/configuration#pipeline).

## Filter Syntax

### Multiple filters

> You can specify multiple filters by adding multiple `--filter` to the command:

Reviewer 2: Do we need to specify what happens in this case? Are they both run? We cover this a little below in "excluding workspaces", maybe that's sufficient?

Author: Yeah I think it is.

> You can specify multiple filters by adding multiple `--filter` to the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify more than one filter by passing multiple `--filter` flags to the command:
```

```sh
turbo run build --filter=my-pkg --filter=my-app
```

### Filter by workspace name

Supports exact matches (`--filter=my-pkg`), and globs (`--filter=*my-pkg*`).

```sh
# Build 'my-pkg', letting `turbo` infer task dependencies
# from the pipeline defined in turbo.json
turbo run build --filter=my-pkg

# Build '@acme/bar', letting `turbo` infer task dependencies
# from the pipeline defined in turbo.json
turbo run build --filter=@acme/bar

# Build all workspaces that start with 'admin-', letting turbo infer task
# dependencies from the pipeline defined in turbo.json
turbo run build --filter=admin-*
```

#### Scopes

> Some monorepos prepend their workspace names with a scope, such as `@acme/ui` and `@acme/app`. As long as the scope (`@acme`) is unique across the codebase, you may omit it from filters.

Reviewer: What happens when it isn't unique, just of my knowledge?

Author: Unsure! Might throw an error, or not be found?

```diff
- turbo run build --filter=@acme/ui
+ turbo run build --filter=ui
```

### Include dependents of matched workspaces

If `my-app` depends on `my-lib`, `...my-lib` will select `my-app` and `my-lib`.

> Including a `^` (`...^my-lib`) will select all of `my-lib`'s dependents, but not `my-lib` itself.

Reviewer: I'm not sure _where_ to do this, but when I read these docs, it would have been helpful to have example use cases of all these. E.g. in this case, something like: "In an app + shared packages" situation, this can be helpful if you want to build all of the dependencies of an app in the monorepo, but not the app itself".  (or whatever is an appropriate example). 

I got a bit overwhelmed learning all the possibilities for filtering, but not knowing how/when to apply them.

Author: Gotcha, good point!
